It's also time for one other improvement, when creating posts
right now we're doing this with two-way binding and it's not necessarily wrong but angular also makes it
easy to work with forms
and of course it makes sense to also use a form semantically.
So what we can do is we can add a form element, normal html element in our cart here, in the post create
component and wrap the form fields and button with it, like this
and unfortunately remove my multiline set up here,
let me recreate that.
And now in here, I got my different inputs in that form
and now we don't need to use two-way binding anymore, though we can, we can use another mechanism
angular provides. When it detects a form element and we get the forms module included which we do, it
will automatically create a javascript object behind the scenes which represents this form so to say
where we can easily register inputs as controls of which it will keep track of, where it will then store
the values of these controls and where we can easily add validation to and submit the form and use
the value of that form.
For that, we can get rid of the two-way binding here with this syntax and instead add ngModel, like
this,
so as a directive without any bindings, this will register this input as a control to this behind the
scenes form.
However angular needs to know how to name this input,
so we need to add the normal name attribute and give this any name of your choice, I'll name it title
and the same for the text area, we can use ngModel, we need to add a name now,
so I will name this content, maybe also reduce the rows but that of course is optional and now angular
is aware of these two controls on this form.
Now when we click the button, I don't want to call on add post manually anymore,
instead I will set this button to be of type submit because we're now in a form and the default html
behavior is that a button with type submit in a form will submit that form and submitting will trigger
a special event to which we can listen to, the submit event and that is where I want to execute on add
post like this, now on add posts remember is our method here.
So now we're doing this whenever we're submitting the form and angular will also prevent the default
which would be that the form gets sent to the server,
we don't want to do that,
we want to handle this entirely in javascript.
Now with that we get the form here,
now we need to get access to the values inside of that form and this can be done with the help of a
local reference. We can add a reference to the form and you can name this however you want, like post form
and now important, you don't just add it like this,
this would give us access to the html element object,
we can actually assign a value here and that value has to be ngForm.
Now that is a directive angular implicitly attaches to the form element here for us
and what this strange syntax does is it gives us access to this object, this form object angular
created for us and manages for us behind the scenes.
So now post form gives us access to that angular form object and we can pass post form as an argument
to on add post and in on add post,
we now know that we received the form which actually is of type ngForm, which you automatically or
which you import, my IDE does it automatically from @angular/forms.
So @angular/forms, this gives us access to ngForm and this now actually holds a lot of information
about the form,
for example whether it's valid or not
but it also gives us access to the values of the form, on the form
there is a value property and on that value property, we could access things like title.
So essentially the names we defined here, title and content, so form value title gives us the title
the user entered, form value content gives us the content.
Obviously now it's possible to enter invalid content,
we can submit an empty form and we add an empty post therefore and clearly not what we want.
We can easily add validation by adding some default html5 validators to our inputs,
so this is not angular,
there is a required validator for example.
Now what angular will do though is it will automatically detect this and then run some behind the scenes
logic in javascript to also update its form object to reflect whether it's valid or not,
so if it fulfills our html5 validators.
So I will require both,
you could add more,
for example there also is a min length validator where you could say the minimum length of a title is
three and not just one as it is with required,
these are things you can add.
Now we get the validators in place and now angular is aware of the fact whether the form is valid or
not.
That being said, whilst this is the case, we can still submit an invalid form.
If I hit save posts, you see it actually marks them as invalid by underlining them in red,
that's an angular material feature but it still submits it.
If we want to prevent that, we have to do it manually. In on add post,
we can check if form invalid
and if this is true, then we just return.
What this means is that now if I reload and I click the button, no post is added but it still tried to submit
it but now it marks it as red
and now thanks to angular material, we can also easily add beautiful error messages.
If we go back to angular material and there to the form field, there on the right you can click on error
messages and you see there's a special mat error component you can add below the input,
let's copy that into our post create component input here.
So below the input I add this and we don't want to check email there,
we want to get access to that input, more on that in a second
but we can check whether this is invalid
and then well display an error message, we'll also have to change that.
So what we can do here is first of all we need to get access to that input and there are two ways of doing
so, we can reach out to our post form and there call get control, then pass the name between quotation
marks and get access to the control like this or we add a local reference to that input, any name you want like
title and set this equal to ngModel,
so where ngForm gave you access to the entire form,
this gives you access to the, well data managed for that input
behind the scenes and then you could also say title invalid because now this is the form control behind
the scenes.
Now whatever you want to output here can be dynamic content but it can also be some hardcoded text like
please enter a post title. Now I'll just copy that mat error and also paste it below my text area here and
on the text area,
I will now also add a local reference content equal to ngModel here too
and therefore here we check whether the content is invalid. And now with that if I save that and go
back to my application and I submit this, you see we got the error messages below the inputs too,
this is really cool,
if I do enter some valid information here, I can submit.
So this is form handling with the help of angular forms, so-called templates
driven form to be very precise because everything is inferred from within your template and
there is an alternative to which I'll will come back later.
So template driven forms and a little help of the angular material package
when it comes to beautifully handled errors.